Located in the heart of Los Angeles, a global center for arts, technology and international trade, the University of Southern California is a world-renowned private research institution enrolling more international students than any other U.S. university and operating an integrated academic medical center that serves more than a million patients each year.
USC operates from two main campuses. 
The University Park campus, south of downtown Los Angeles, is adjacent to the museums and recreational facilities of historic Exposition Park.
With its park-like atmosphere and rich architectural history, the campus fosters a stimulating academic environment as well as a vibrant cultural community. 
The Health Sciences campus, northeast of downtown, offers world-class patient care, classroom and laboratory facilities that draw scientists, patients and students from around the world, forming a dynamic, interactive environment shaping the future of health care.
Within the USC Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences and 18 professional schools, USC encourages all students to cross traditional boundaries in their pursuit of knowledge. The university offers bachelor's degrees in 162 majors. 
As of fall 2012, graduate students were enrolled in nearly 380 master's, certificate, doctoral and professional degree programs. With 155 different academic and professional minors, USC offers the broadest selection of any U.S. university. 
Selected students may participate in Thematic Option, USC's interdisciplinary undergraduate honors program. 
The Renaissance Scholars program honors students who study subjects across disparate fields.
USC also presents opportunities for travel, independent discovery, and addressing basic questions of human value and social challenges affecting our country and the world. 
The Global Scholars program honors undergraduates who excel both at home and abroad, the Discovery Scholars program recognizes students who demonstrate original research and creativity, and the USC Dornsife Scholars program honors graduating college seniors who combine the talents sought in the USC Discovery and Global Scholars programs with an added emphasis on positive human impact.
At the graduate level, each year the Provost's Ph.D. Fellowship Program supports 100 doctoral students who show exceptional promise. 
The USC Annenberg Graduate Fellowship Program funds cutting-edge study in communication and digital media, and USC's Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) program offers grants and fellowships to increase the involvement of women in science and engineering. 
The new Provost's Postdoctoral Scholars Program in the Humanities eventually will attract up to 10 outstanding humanities scholars to USC.
The university also commits itself to fostering research with wide-ranging social impacts and is one of a few premier research institutions upon which the United States depends for a steady stream of new knowledge, art and technology.
Unusual among major research institutions, the University of Southern California is home to six arts schools, in the disciplines of cinematic arts, music, dramatic arts, architecture, fine arts, and dance. Other top-ranked programs include art history, creative writing, a master's program in professional writing and the new USC International Artists Fellowships, graduate fellowships for promising artists from across the Pacific Rim, Latin America and Southeast Asia.
The university's innovative and university-wide Visions & Voices arts and humanities initiative has few parallels in higher education. 
It features a spectacular array of events conceived and organized by university faculty and schools, including presentations by critically acclaimed artists and distinguished speakers, theatrical productions, music and dance performances, film screenings, lectures and workshops on both USC campuses, as well as a variety of opportunities to experience the dynamic cultural landscape of Los Angeles.
When applying to University of Southern California, it's important to note the application deadline is January 10. 
Scores for either the ACT or SAT test are due February 15. The application fee at University of Southern California is $80. 
It is most selective, with an acceptance rate of 19.8 percent. 
The student-faculty ratio at University of Southern California is 9:1, and the school has 57.1 percent of its classes with fewer than 20 students. 
The most popular majors at University of Southern California include: Business, Management, Marketing, and Related Support Services; Social Sciences; Visual and Performing Arts; Communication, Journalism, and Related Programs; and Engineering. The average freshman retention rate, an indicator of student satisfaction, is 96.8 percent. 
University of Southern California has a total undergraduate enrollment of 18,445, with a gender distribution of 49.6 percent male students and 50.4 percent female students.
At this school, 33 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or -affiliated housing and 67 percent of students live off campus. University of Southern California is part of the NCAA I athletic conference. 
Campus safety data were reported by the institution to the U.S. Department of Education and have not been independently verified. 
The numbers for criminal offenses reflect reports of alleged offenses to campus security and/or law enforcement authorities, not necessarily prosecutions or convictions. 
Experts advise prospective students and their families to do their own research to evaluate the safety of a campus as well as the surrounding area.
University of Southern California offers a number of student services including nonremedial tutoring, placement service, day care, health service, and health insurance. 
University of Southern California also offers campus safety and security services like 24-hour foot and vehicle patrols, late night transport/escort service, 24-hour emergency telephones, lighted pathways/sidewalks, student patrols, and controlled dormitory access (key, security card, etc). 
Alcohol is permitted for students of legal age at University of Southern California.